[MUSIC]
>> Justin Meyer: So for today's set up
please make sure you have open in your
browser exercise/DOM/test.html and
breeds.html, we'll use breeds later.
Test is gonna test your version of jQuery.
And then open in your editor
exercises/DOM/my_jquery
which we'll be using right now.
Hopefully you have the extend implemented,
if not I will show you how
to get that implemented.
We implemented that right
at the end of yesterday.
And also open my_tabs, that's where we'll
build the tabs at the end of the day.
So today it's really about understanding
the DOM but by building jQuery.
We're going to finish up
jQuery function utilities,
these are just a bunch of functional
helpers that jQuery adds.
This is still more like
JavaScript knowledge but
then once we're done with that we
gonna go into the day two agenda.
We're gonna talk about how you
find elements in the page.
How you go from one element
to another element.
How you read element attributes and
properties get and set them.
How styles are computed on an element and
a little bit about how layout and
positioning works.
And then we'll teach you pretty much
everything there is to know about events.
And then take all that knowledge and
build a version of jQuery and
finish the class building your own tabs
widget with their own version of jQuery.
But first I want to review
this handout that we give,
which kinda serves as a summary of
everything we learned yesterday.
[COUGH]
So,
I'm just gonna walk through what
it means and what it looks like.
So if you ever find yourself, how did
that work again, you can remember it.
So remember everything ,when
you create a variable,
it's essentially creating a kind of
registry and an entry in a call object
that points to whatever the value is on
the right hand side of the equal side.
That's for the most part what equal does.
So that's why we created this
val here that points to 5 and
a me that points to an object and that has
a name property that points to Justin.
[COUGH]
Then next,
when you create a function,
there's a few things that happen.
Or sorry, not when you create a function,
when you define a function.
Which kind of is a synonym, actually.
When you define a function,
a function object is created in memory.
The function always knows about
its parent call object, and
the function has a prototype object
that's created automatically.
We didn't really talk
about it yesterday but
[COUGH] These default prototype objects
have a constructor property that points
back to the function that created them.
So this is what happens whenever you
see a function defined like this.
Again, it doesn't really know anything
about what's going on in here.
Next when a function is called or
invoked, a new call object is created.
And the first thing is its
arguments are translated.
So you can see here it's got arg1
points to what me points to.
And val is our arg2 is
going to have its own copy,
this is the pass by reference and
pass by value thing.
And then it's also going
to have its value for
this called remember we learned that
whenever a function is called without dot,
it's always this inside that function,
even though we don't show it in here.
If we were to put in here this
is going to be the window.
That's why this points to the window.
So, you can see when a function is called,
it's called object has this inside of it.
That's how, where that comes from.
And, then the function is actually ran and
any variables
declared in this function are also
stored in this call object.
That's what happens when
you run a function.
>> Justin Meyer: Finally, let's talk
about when you use the new keyword.
But to use the new keyword we're gonna
set up a Dog constructor function, so
the exact same thing is gonna happen.
A function that knows about its call
object that has a default prototype
object.
[COUGH] Then we're gonna
add a speak function, so
we're doing dog.prototype.speak.
Now if we were being extremely
hyper vigilant, we would also,
this function itself has a prototype of
object and it knows about its call object.
But we didn't draw it in because
it would get too messy and
then we're going to finally do
what the new operator does.
If you remember from
yesterday the new operator
creates a new object in memory, step one.
And that's gonna sign that objects proto
property to the constructor function's
prototype object.
>> Justin Meyer: And then it's
going to actually run the function.
And again whenever you call a function,
a new call object is created.
This is going to be set to point to
the new instance created in memory and
name really should be pointing and
I just realized to it's own copy of Fido.
The way that we're kind of phrasing it
in the reality JavaScript could actually
potentially point here.
But for this, it should be
pointing to it's own copy of Fido.
And then the body of
the function is gonna be run and
then it's gonna set this
name property to point,
actually to set this name property
point to a zone copy of Fido.
So, that's how that gets set up.
And this is why we could call
with a dot operator pup.speak,
because the dot operator would, first
we look up pup and we get this object.
And the dot operator would say,
give me the speak property of
this not find it follow the proto
chain to this object which is
the constructor function prototype,
find speak and call that.
Cool, everything we learned yesterday.
Awesome, good job guys.
Okay, so with that,
I want to make sure that
everybody is kind of where
we ended up yesterday.
So some people I know left early or
left online.
We implemented this extend function.
Basically just to recap it,
it just extend,
it copies all the properties from object
into target and then returns target.
If you're behind or if any point,
you guys today, get you fall behind,
there's in this folder,
there's a final folder that has the final
implementation of everything that
we're gonna be working on today.
Try, if you're here working with me,
don't cheat.
It's better for you to try and
struggle and then wait for
me to give the answer because you'll
absolutely learn better that way.
Trying even if you're struggling cuz
we're giving short amount of time today.
If you're struggling you don't do
anything, the struggle is good,
it's worth it.
It will help you learn better that way.
So try not to cheat unless you for
some good reason have fallen behind.
So for those who are already behind
cuz they didn't get to do this,
please go to my_jquery here and
copy that that extend
code into the extend code
in exercise/DOM/my_jquery.
And then once you've done that and
everybody should have it.
So if they open
the exercises/DOM/test.html page,
they see this first test pass.
So quick show of hands, is everybody
about there in the room right now?
Show of nodding heads looks good.
Okay, so
now we’ll move on to the next exercise.
>> Justin Meyer: I think he’s going to be-
>> Student 1: What is the dollar sign?
>> Justin Meyer: What is the dollar sign?
>> Student 1: Yeah.
>> Justin Meyer: The dollar sign is,
that's a good question,
the dollar sign is just like
if I wrote A = something.
The dollar sign is just another character
that you can use in variable names.
And variable names like you can use
the letter A for a variable name.
So it's kind of like I just did var it is,
it's more like I did window.$ = that
which is really what I'm doing up here.
So it's just that
>> Student 2: [CROSSTALK] To use for
jQuery, jQuery is gonna [INAUDIBLE]
As their character that
you can use to invoke it.
>> Justin Meyer: Yeah, but it's not,
the thing that I want to communicate
is that it's not special in any way.
It's not like it has
some special powers or
special ability besides what jQuery either
gives it or we're going to give it.
>> Justin Meyer: Good question, okay,
so back to the slide.
>> Student 2: There's a question
in the chat, what is a selector?
>> Justin Meyer: Selector
is just the argument.
To be clear we haven't implemented
the dollar function yet
and we haven't implemented anything
except for a dollar extend.
We'll come back to the dollar function and
implement it after we implement
all of these things here.
But we needed like a dollar object so
we could add things to it for
this part of the training,